---
layout: post_teaching
title: Lecture 20
category: biostatm280winter2019
---

## Installing RStudio/Keras on Windows

There are various issues installing RStudio/keras on Windows. Below is a solution provided by Edward Yu ([@edwardmjyu](https://github.com/edwardmjyu)):

The issue in more detail and its solution is found here: 
<https://github.com/rstudio/keras/issues/626>

Below are the steps for the solution: 
Only thing that did work (executed in the following order):

1. installation of R 3.5.2 (independent from directory (standard or any other))
2. installation of RStudio (independent from directory)
3. RStudio -> Tools -> Global Options -> Packages -> Disable both "Use secure download method for HTTP" and "Use Internet Explorer library/proxy for HTTP"
4. installation of Miniconda3 (-> has to be the standard directory!) Version 4.5.11 (it did not work with the newest version)
5. Use RStudio ->
```{r}
install.packages("tensorflow")
install.packages("keras")
library("keras")
install_keras() 
```
One caveat in the installation process is the version of Miniconda, there may be potential issues if the newest version of miniconda is installed. 

## FAQs

* Kristen's question. Intermediate results during TensorFlow training. Take a look at the checkpoints in TensorFlow: <https://www.tensorflow.org/guide/checkpoints> and callbacks in Keras: <https://keras.io/callbacks/>.

* Stephen's question. word2vec

## Announcement

* Today's office hourse: 2:30p-3p.

## Checklist on your resume/cv

> A data scientist is someone who is better at statistics than any software engineer and better at software engineering than any statistician.  

- [ ] Git/GitHub (give your GitHub handle)  
- [ ] Tidyverse   
- [ ] Data visualization (ggplot2, shiny)  
- [ ] SQL databases  
- [ ] HPC (if you use Hoffman2) 
- [ ] Cloud Computing (GCP, AWS?, Azure?)  
- [ ] Docker  
- [ ] Deep learing with Keras+TensorFlow+GPU  
- [ ] Frontend development (shiny, smart phone app)  
- [ ] Apache Hadoop + Spark  

* Make your GitHub repo `biostat-m280-2019-winter` public (after final week) and show your work to back your resume.

* **Use** these tools in your daily work: use Git/GitHub for all your homework and research projects, write weekly research report using RMarkdown, give presentation using ggplot2 and Shiny, write blog/tutorial, ...

* Stop your own GCP instances and release un-used static IPs to avoid charges. Ask me for $50 credit if you use up your $300 free credit. 

## What I didn't cover

- Machine/statistical learning methods. Familiar with methods in _Elements of Statistical Learning_ and software, e.g., _scikit-learn_.  

- Algorithms. Next quarter's M280 will cover numerical linear algebra and numerical optimization algorithms. 

- Public health applications.

- Be open to languages. **Python** is a more generic programming language and widely adopted in data science. **JavaScript** is dominant in web applications. **Scala** is popular for implementing distributed programs. **Julia** is attractive for high performance scientific computing.

## Today

* Course evaluation: [http://my.ucla.edu](http://my.ucla.edu/). Do it now please!

* GAN example.

* Apache Hadoop + spark.   
